Guru Padmasambhava, Master of the Land of Snows
by the Fourth Dodrupchen Rinpoche, Jalü Dorje

emaho
Emaho!
jé gangchen gyi lama guru pejung
Guru Padmasambhava, master of the Land of Snows,
lha tsa sum gyalwa zhitro rabjam
Infinite peaceful and wrathful deities of the Three Roots,
kyab lumé gönpo könchok nam sum
And unfailing guardians of refuge, the Three Jewels—
nyingrü pé tingné solwa deb so
From the very core of my heart, I pray to you all.

lü pung kham dakpa gyumé lha ku
The pure aggregates and elements of your body are the deity’s illusory form,
ngak lung kham dakpa ngak kyi rangzhin
The pure wind-element of your speech is by nature the mantra,
sem dren rik dakpa chökü kyilkhor
And the pure cognizance of your mind is the maṇḍala of dharmakāya,
pal nyammé jalü dorjé khyen no
Glorious and incomparable Jalü Dorje, watch over me!

ngön lé nyön wang gi sipé tsönrar
Imprisoned in conditioned existence by past actions and afflictions,
lé deduk natsok chu yi nyerma
And buffeted by karma and the vicissitudes of joy and sorrow,
né gar dro dir dro rangwang mé dü
I lack the autonomy to proceed wherever I choose,
kyab khyö nam ma tok zhen na mepé
And I have no other source of protection but you.

yi khyé shé depé nying né té na
As I place my sincere and trusting faith in you,
dak lé ngen trulpé wang duma tong
Do not allow me to succumb to misdeeds or delusion.
gön khyé kyi tukjé namyang ma dor
O protector, never forsake me in your compassion
duk di né tarpar dzö chik kyé kyé
And help me to escape from this misery! Kyé! Kyé!

tsé di dang chima bardö zirwé
As I travel the five long and perilous pathways of being,
lam gyü ngé trang ring yangsar drim tsé
Tormented throughout this life, the next, and the bardos,
kyab kyobpé lo té zhen na mepé
I have no one else to rely on for refuge and protection.
né khorwa ngendrö jik lé drol shik
Free me from the terrors of saṃsāra and its lower realms!

né dakpé zhing chok dewachen du
To the supreme pure realm of Sukhāvatī, wherein
gön orgyen pema nang ta yermé
Lord Orgyen Padma and Amitābha are inseparable,
pal drinchen tsawé lamé tuk long
The glorious and gracious root guru’s wisdom expanse—
dak rangrig chökyi ying su po shok
To this, the dharma-sphere of my own awareness, transfer me!

This was written by the glorious and incomparable Jalü Dorje. All is virtuous!

| Translated by Adam Pearcey, 2022.

Version: 1.0-20220317